README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file.      -->
<!-- To locally generate README.md, run rmarkdown::render('README.Rmd'). -->

## PhotoGEA <a href="https://eloch216.github.io/PhotoGEA/"><img src="man/figures/logo.svg" align="left" style="height:138px"></a>

**PhotoGEA** (short for **photo**synthetic **g**as **e**xchange
**a**nalysis) is an R package that provides a suite of tools for
loading, processing, and analyzing photosynthetic gas exchange data.

This package is a work in progress and is not yet fully documented. As
documentation proceeds, functions are subject to modification or removal
without notice.

### Installing the R Package

The easiest way to install `PhotoGEA` is to type the following from
within the R terminal:

``` r
remotes::install_github('eloch216/PhotoGEA')
```

Note that this method requires the `remotes` package, which can be
installed from within R by typing `install.packages('remotes')`.

### Learning to Use PhotoGEA

The best way to learn about using `PhotoGEA` is to visit the [PhotoGEA
website](https://eloch216.github.io/PhotoGEA/index.html) and click the
[Get
started](https://eloch216.github.io/PhotoGEA/articles/PhotoGEA.html)
link in the top menu bar. The website includes documentation for all the
functions and data sets included in the package, as well as articles
that describe its general features and several important use cases.

### Example Scripts

Several example scripts are provided in the `example_scripts` directory
of the [source code repository](https://github.com/eloch216/PhotoGEA).
To run one of these scripts, set the working directory to a folder that
contains a local copy of the script and use the `source` command to
execute the code in the script. No guarantees are made that these
scripts will run on your machine or be compatible with your data, but
they may be a useful source of ideas.

### License

The `PhotoGEA` R package, its documentation, and its associated example
scripts are licensed under the MIT license.

Commit message:

Add `R CMD check` workflow
usethis::use_github_action('check-standard')

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file.      -->
<!-- To locally generate README.md, run rmarkdown::render('README.Rmd'). -->

## PhotoGEA <a href="https://eloch216.github.io/PhotoGEA/"><img src="man/figures/logo.svg" align="left" style="height:138px"></a>

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/eloch216/PhotoGEA/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/eloch216/PhotoGEA/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

**PhotoGEA** (short for **photo**synthetic **g**as **e**xchange
**a**nalysis) is an R package that provides a suite of tools for
loading, processing, and analyzing photosynthetic gas exchange data.

This package is still under rapid development.

### Installing the R Package

The easiest way to install `PhotoGEA` is to type the following from
within the R terminal:

``` r
remotes::install_github('eloch216/PhotoGEA')
```

Note that this method requires the `remotes` package, which can be
installed from within R by typing `install.packages('remotes')`.

### Learning to Use PhotoGEA

The best way to learn about using `PhotoGEA` is to visit the [PhotoGEA
website](https://eloch216.github.io/PhotoGEA/index.html) and click the
[Get
started](https://eloch216.github.io/PhotoGEA/articles/PhotoGEA.html)
link in the top menu bar. The website includes documentation for all the
functions and data sets included in the package, as well as articles
that describe its general features and several important use cases.

### Example Scripts

Several example scripts are provided in the `example_scripts` directory
of the [source code repository](https://github.com/eloch216/PhotoGEA).
To run one of these scripts, set the working directory to a folder that
contains a local copy of the script and use the `source` command to
execute the code in the script. No guarantees are made that these
scripts will run on your machine or be compatible with your data, but
they may be a useful source of ideas.

### License

The `PhotoGEA` R package, its documentation, and its associated example
scripts are licensed under the MIT license.
